# Civics Meeting Minutes Dec 4 2025

## Attendees:&#x20;

| Name              | Attendance | Role      | Voting Seat (Y/N) | Election Term |
| ----------------- | ---------- | --------- | ----------------- | ------------- |
| Nicolas Cerny,    | Yes        | Chair     | Y                 | April 2026    |
| Larisa Mcfarlane  | Yes        | Secretary | N                 | N/A           |
| Thomas Lindseth   | Yes        | Intersect | N                 | N/A           |
| Ken-Erik O        | Yes        | Member    | Y                 | April 2026    |
| Nana Safo         | Yes        | Member    | Y                 | April 2026    |
| Alex Seregin      | Yes        | Member    | Y                 | April 2026    |
| Randy             | Yes        | Member    | Y                 | April 2026    |
| Dzubang Mermoz    | Yes        | Member    | Y                 | April 2026    |
| Ian Hartwell      | Yes        | Member    | Y                 | October 2026  |
| Megan Dyamond     | Yes        | Member    | Y                 | October 2026  |
| Musa Ridwan Itopa | Yes        | Member    | Y                 | October 2026  |
| Simon Fleck       | No         | Member    | Y                 | October 2026  |

Community/Other Attendees:

Name:  Gintama

Recording: [CIVICS Committee (Intersect) Meeting - 2025/12/04 12:54 GMT - Recording](https://drive.google.com/file/d/13wqhnEFR3gViy9RZnvg6Q7YCJk2K9UHK/view?usp=sharing)

Transcript: [CIVICS Committee (Intersect) Meeting - 2025/12/04 12:54 GMT - Notes by Gemini](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1-rGv4EhPlO4Fx0zYReD2Pc_M5vQQNFllKnM1Gqhe5k4/edit?usp=drive_link)

## Agenda 4 Dec.25

* Welcome: Chair
* Updates:
  * CC Snap Election
  * Gintama
  * AMM
  * Member participation
* Governance Health WG
* Housekeeping
  * Member Compensation payments
  * Upcoming Dates (Holidays)
  * Civics Vice Chair Election
*   Working groups

    * Governance Health Working Group (Nicolas)
    * Governance Education Working Group (Nana)
    * Constitutional Amendment Process

    #### &#x20;**Decisions Made (Votes)**

    * Approve Governance Health Working Group (GHWG) Report for Publication: The committee approved the final GHWG report, including its identified KPIs, for publication.
    * Condition: Publication is scheduled for after the December 11th meeting, allowing all voting members one week to review the 24-page document for any major errors or issues before final release.
    * Approve Constitutional Amendment Process (CAP) Requirements Document: The committee approved the CAP Requirements Document (Phase 1 deliverable).
    * Result: This approval allows the working group to move immediately into Phase 2 (building out the constitutional amendment process).

    #### Key Actions & Updates

    * CC Snap Election Final Push: Members were urged to use social media and personal accounts to make a final push for D-Rep participation before the voting closed on December 5th.
    * Update: Voting closes on December 5th at 12:00 UTC. Results, subject to audit, will be announced shortly thereafter, with the on-chain governance action planned for Monday, December 8th.
    * Encourage On-Chain Participation: A general action item to begin preparing messaging to encourage high D-Rep and SPO participation in the upcoming on-chain vote (following the snap election).
    * GHWG Standardized Measurement Proposal: An action was logged for the GHWG to take up the suggestion to develop standardized measurement methodologies/queries for the KPIs in the future (Phase 2), ensuring consistent data across the ecosystem.
    * Governance Education Working Group Scheduling Fix: LM was assigned the action to investigate and resolve the scheduling issue that caused the Governance Education working group to miss recent meetings.

    Constitution Discussion Continuation: The complex and philosophical discussion initiated by G on the legal status, naming, and enforcement authority of the Cardano Constitution was determined to require more time and was deferred to the working group channels (potentially the CAP working group) and future committee sessions.

    * AMM Review: The success of the Annual Members Meeting (AMM) in generating interest (e.g., a new member for the CAP working group) was noted, and an action was logged to brainstorm ideas on how to better utilize the Interverse space for Civics Committee outreach and understanding.

<table data-header-hidden><thead><tr><th width="145.78515625"></th><th width="357.29296875"></th><th></th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><strong>Topic</strong></td><td><strong>Discussion</strong></td><td><strong>Notes</strong></td></tr><tr><td>Meeting Start &#x26; Agenda</td><td>NC opened the meeting, highlighting updates on the CC Snap Election, G's discussion topic, AMM recap, Governance Health Working Group (GHWG) report, and Constitutional Amendment Process (CAP) working group update.</td><td>Meeting date: Dec 4th. G's topic was prioritized as item #2 due to being postponed last week.</td></tr><tr><td>CC Snap Election Update</td><td>TL provided the most recent numbers for the off-chain D-Rep voting, noting only one day remained. The current participation has surpassed the total voting power of the previous CC election (summer).</td><td>72 votes received with 2.878B ADA (approx. 21% of total active voting power). C (50.6%) and CC (46.9%) are close. Voting closes Dec 5th, 12:00 UTC.</td></tr><tr><td>Snap Election Next Steps &#x26; Credentials</td><td>NC, LM, and TL discussed the announcement of results and the on-chain action. Top three candidates were asked to submit credentials by Friday. Backup submission days were planned.</td><td>Preliminary results will be announced, pending internal (AD) and external (D-Quadrant) audit results (expected Monday morning). Governance action submission is planned for Monday, with Tues/Wed as backup days.</td></tr><tr><td>Encouraging Participation &#x26; Critical Vote</td><td>NC urged members to promote the off-chain election on social media. LM noted that the upcoming on-chain vote (following the snap election) will require a significant push for D-Rep and SPO participation.</td><td>LM highlighted the recent unconstitutional vote on the critical infrastructure budget, suggesting it will serve as a "wake-up call" for the community regarding the need for the seven CC members.</td></tr><tr><td>Discussion: Constitution and Enforcement</td><td>G raised a discussion about the legal authority and scope of the Cardano Constitution following a recent chain fork incident. He questioned if it should be called a "constitution" if it lacks legal binding/enforcement and where the CC's authority begins/ends regarding on-chain actions.</td><td>TL, KEØ, LM, and MD agreed the Constitution is not a legal document and does not hold legal precedence in any nation. Enforcement of wrongdoing is down to individuals to pursue under their own national laws (MD/LM). CC's role is to assess on-chain governance actions (NC).</td></tr><tr><td>AMMs Recap</td><td>LM gave a brief recap of the Intersect Annual Members Meeting (AMM) held last Saturday in the "Interverse." The event included a recorded Civics presentation.</td><td>Despite technical glitches, the session worked well. LM noted the AMM led to inquiries, including a new joiners for the CAP and GH working groups, showing its effectiveness as a medium.</td></tr><tr><td>GHWG Report for Publication</td><td>NC presented the final Governance Health Working Group (GHWG) report (24 pages, 6 categories of KPIs) for the Committee's review and approval for publication. KEØ suggested that future steps should include defining a standardized measurement for KPIs (e.g., specific query/epoch standard).</td><td>The report synthesizes hundreds of KPIs. NC requested members review the document for errors but not add new KPIs at this stage. The formal vote on publication was scheduled for the next meeting (Dec 11th).</td></tr><tr><td>Vote: GHWG Report Publication</td><td>The Committee voted to approve the GHWG report for publication, pending final review by members before the December 11th meeting.</td><td>8 "Yes" votes cast (Quorum met). Approved. Publication scheduled for after the Dec 11th meeting.</td></tr><tr><td>Governance Education Working Group Update</td><td>R provided a brief update, noting missed sessions due to calendar issues and low feedback on the educational survey. AS briefly commented on his personal ideation regarding fairness in governance.</td><td>R questioned if a similar report to the GHWG KPI document was necessary. NC advised that a maintained, up-to-date resource is likely more important than a static report. LM to look into the working group scheduling issue.</td></tr></tbody></table>
