# Civics Meeting Minutes June 2, 2025

**CIVICS Committee Meeting Minutes**\
**Date:** Monday, June 2, 2025\
**Time:** 4:00 PM UTC\
**Location:** Google Meet\
**Facilitator:** Interim Chair

***

**Attending Members:**

* Larisa Mcfarlane (Secretary)
* Nicolas Cerny (Interim Chair)
* Ken-Erik Ølmheim
* Thomas Lindseth
* Nana Safo
* Dzubang Mermoz
* Randy (Wada)

***

**Meeting Summary:**

**1. Agenda Overview & Welcome**

* The meeting began with an outline of focus areas for the new iteration of the Civics Committee.
* Topics included: role clarity, communications, chair elections, tools, and administrative setup.

**2. Committee Role & Charter Re-evaluation**

* A discussion took place around redefining the Committee's purpose in light of onchain governance and the new Constitution. Members agreed the old charter is outdated.
* A workshop will be scheduled to revise the charter, vision, and set SMART goals.

**3. Communications Strategy**

* Agreement to launch a Civics Committee X (Twitter) account.
* Purpose: increase visibility, communicate goals, empower members, and share updates.
* The account will be set up and managed collaboratively, with the Secretary initiating setup and access delegation. Suggested cross-posting to the Cardano Forum to reach non-X users.
* Ideas also raised for hosting X Spaces and publishing content on YouTube and Intersect channels.

**4. Chair and Vice Chair Elections**

* Members reviewed the new Intersect tool for elections.
* Application deadline: June 4, 5:30 PM UTC. Voting period: June 4–9, 2025.
* Members can put themselves forward as candidates; the highest vote becomes Chair, second-highest becomes Vice Chair.
* A new Vice Chair will be elected in October when the current Vice Chair rotates to Chair.

**5. Governance Accessibility & Education**

* The Committee discussed the need for accessible governance information.
* Suggestions included:
  * Translations (e.g., into French)
  * Educational videos and layman-friendly explainers
  * Explaining governance actions simply and clearly for all community levels
  * Partnering with hubs and SPOs to broaden reach

**6. Committee Operations & Scheduling**

* Discord will be used as the primary communication channel (Telegram discontinued).
* Weekly meetings proposed until the revised charter is complete.
* A poll will be created to determine the best regular meeting time on Thursdays.

**7. Knowledge Base Update**

* The Civics Committee section on the Intersect Knowledge Base is outdated.
* Members are encouraged to review current content.
* Updates will be mapped out in a shared Google Doc with clear structure and page sections.
* Volunteers will help draft and approve content for updating.

**8. Working Group Updates**

* **CC Election Working Group:**
  * 22 applications received; 17 valid submissions remain.
  * Election timeline: Voting June 5–30; results announced July 4.
  * Discussion on "committeeMinSize" parameter and preparing for edge-case scenarios.
* **Governance Support WG:**
  * Attendance issues noted; calendar invites may have been incorrect but are being corrected.
* **Future Governance Workstreams:**
  * Committee noted upcoming proposals and possible collaborations, including data-driven initiatives like the "Minimum Viable Governance" proposal.

**9. Upcoming Events**

* Three GovTool-related events were promoted:
  * **June 4, 3 PM UTC:** GovTool Working Group session
  * **June 4, 4 PM UTC:** GovTool X Space (hosted by Intersect)
  * **June 5, 3 PM UTC:** GovTool AMA via the GovTool X account

**10. Next Steps & Closing**

* A dedicated vision/charter workshop will be scheduled after the Chair election.
* Members were reminded to register and vote in the Chair/Vice Chair election.
* Encouraged to subscribe to the Intersect Luma calendar for automatic updates.

**Meeting Adjourned: \~5:23 PM UTC**

***

