# Civics Meeting Minutes Aug 14 2025

Attendees:&#x20;

| Name             | Attendance  | Role        | Voting Seat (Y/N) |
| ---------------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------------- |
| Larisa Mcfarlane | Yes         | Secretary   | N                 |
| Nicolas Cerny,   | Yes         | Chair       | Y                 |
| Ken-Erik O       | Yes         | Member      | Y                 |
| Nana Safo        | Yes         | Member      | Y                 |
| Alex Seregin     | No          | Member      | Y                 |
| Randy            | Yes         | Member      | Y                 |
| Thomas Lindseth  | No          | Intersect   | N                 |
| Taichi Yokoyama  | No          | Member      | Y                 |
| Reshan Fernando  | No          | Member      | Y                 |
| Daniela Alves    | No          | Member      | Y                 |
| Takeshi Ohishi   | No          | Member      | Y                 |
| <p><br></p>      | <p><br></p> | <p><br></p> | <p><br></p>       |



Recording: [CIVICS Committee (Intersect) Mtg - 2025/08/14 13:56 BST - Recording](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1fdhurm-TNpFZOsaSlA5OetNnriH6nF9Y/view?usp=sharing)

Transcript: [CIVICS Committee (Intersect) Mtg - 2025/08/14 13:56 BST - Transcript](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Gd0o7ZIle7E2f8WHPyQjq7Xpyeks8FjumHSqyloXgHs/edit?usp=sharing)

Chat Transcript: [Here<br>](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1Q8HY-Te2Mh732ch8DWYdgBFHfQAiW7Yk/view?usp=sharing)

Agenda 14th.Aug.25

| <ul><li>Welcome  - Chair Update</li></ul>                                                                                                                            |
| -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| <ul><li>Recommendation on Grants for DRep discussion (CIP-149)</li></ul>                                                                                             |
| <ul><li>CC Update Committee GA - SPO Call</li></ul>                                                                                                                  |
| <ul><li>Working group updates:<br>  Governance Health Working Group (for objective 1) </li></ul><p>         Governance Education Working Group (for objective 2)</p> |
| <ul><li>AOB &#x26; Close</li></ul>                                                                                                                                   |

## Decisions/Actions

#### Decisions

* Maintain 2025 Roadmap Focus: The committee affirmed its decision to not take on a full constitutional rewrite this year, agreeing that its current roadmap focused on governance health and education is the priority.
* Proceed with CIP-149 Recommendation: The committee agreed on the substance of the recommendation for CIP-149 grants, deciding to include specific requirements for data reporting from participating wallets.

#### Actions

* Finalize and Send CIP-149 Recommendation (Nicolas): Nicolas will update the recommendation document to include a "measuring success" section and the data reporting requirements discussed, then send the final version to Jack with the committee copied.
* Host X Space to Mobilize SPOs (Larisa & Nicolas): Larisa and Nicolas will host an X (Twitter) Space next Wednesday to raise awareness and provide guidance for SPOs on how to vote for the "Update Constitutional Committee" governance action.
* Invite Guests to X Space (Larisa & Nicolas): Larisa and Nicolas will invite knowledgeable community members to the X Space to help explain the voting process for SPOs.
* Resume Governance Health WG Setup (Larisa): Larisa will resume the setup activities for the Governance Health working group, including scheduling the first meeting, now that members have returned from travel.
* Provide Update on Member Status (Larisa): Larisa will update the committee on Alex's participation status once discussions with him have concluded.
* Review Education WG Documents (Committee Members): Nana has updated the documentation for the Governance Education working group, which is now ready for review by other members.<br>

| Topic                                       | Discussion                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | Notes                                                                                                                                                                              |
| ------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Opening & Rare Evo Debrief                  | Larisa and Nicolas shared their experiences from the Rare Evo conference in Las Vegas. They described it as a valuable and positive event with great community engagement around Intersect and its committees.                                                                                             | The conference was considered a success for community engagement.                                                                                                                  |
| Governance Workshop Insights                | Nicolas discussed the two-day governance workshop held at Rare Evo. He mentioned the focus on an "executive function" and shared a link to a forum post summarizing the discussions. He felt that existing info actions already mostly fulfill this need.                                                  | Key discussions from the workshop revolved around improving Cardano's governance model, with a write-up available for review.                                                      |
| New Community Constitution Proposal         | The committee discussed a new constitution version submitted for a vote by a community member (Uta). While acknowledging the content may be an improvement, members  raised concerns about the non-inclusive drafting process compared to the original, workshop-driven constitution.                      | A new constitution is being voted on, but its legitimacy is questioned due to the closed drafting process, highlighting a challenge in Cardano's permissionless governance system. |
| Civics Committee's Role in Constitution 2.0 | The members reiterated that a full constitutional rewrite is not on the committee's 2025 roadmap due to resource constraints. Nicolas suggested the committee's future role should be to create a framework for a process to develop a new constitution, rather than drafting it directly.                 | Civics are unlikely to take  on a full constitutional rewrite this year but may develop a process for one in the future.                                                           |
| CIP-149 DRep Donation Recommendation        | The main topic was the review of a formal recommendation document drafted by Nicolas  regarding CIP-149. The document proposes providing grants to wallet providers to implement the DRep donation feature.                                                                                                | The committee reviewed a draft proposal to provide grants to wallets for implementing CIP-149.                                                                                     |
| Grant Amount & Effort Estimation            | Ken-Erik provided an estimated breakdown of the work required for a wallet to implement the feature (dev, UI/UX, testing), totaling around nine days. The group discussed the appropriate grant amount, with Nicolas noting the transcript from the last meeting mentioned 5,000 ADA.                      | The proposed grant aims to subsidize, not fully cover, the development cost. The group estimated the effort at \~9 days of work per wallet.                                        |
| Data Collection Requirements                | Ken-Erik emphasized the need to include data reporting requirements in the grant contracts. Specifically, wallets should report on user engagement (how many users were shown the feature, conversion rates, opt-out rates) to help measure the feature's success and inform future incentive discussions. | The grant will require wallets to provide anonymized data on user interaction with the donation feature, which is crucial for the "test" aspect of the initiative.                 |
| CC Update Governance Action & SPO Voting    | Larisa highlighted the low SPO voting turnout for the "Update Constitutional Committee" action, which requires 51% approval from stake pools. The process is more complex for SPOs, often requiring them to use their cold keys.                                                                           | SPO voter turnout is critically low. The complex voting process for SPOs is a significant barrier.                                                                                 |
| SPO Engagement Plan                         | To raise awareness and encourage voting, Nicolas and Larisa agreed to host an X (Twitter) Space next week. They plan to invite knowledgeable guests to explain the process and the benefits of using newer features like Catalyst keys to simplify voting.                                                 | An X Space will be hosted next Wednesday from the Civics X account to mobilize SPOs to vote.                                                                                       |

<br>
