# Civics Meeting Minutes January 30, 2025

Welcome from the new Civics Committee Chair: [Jose Miguel De Gamboa](mailto:jmdegamboa@hagamosvaca.com)

* Thank you to Michael for his chairmanship in the past
* The new chair’s operating principle is to gather the collective intelligence and facilitate the group forward.
* Ask: For members to continue to be committed, engage and participate. There’s a lot coming up in governance.  We’ll need your participation and help.<br>

GovTool Budget Update

* Context: the budget proposal is related to the core governance tools. For example, Voltaire GovTool and the Constitutional Committee Portal.
* Currently 5 builders are contributing to these tools.
* GovTool purpose: a reliable option for governance tools, owned by the community.
* The working group defined the vision for 2030 and roadmap for 2025 and defined a budget for the 2025 roadmap and maintenance. This was reviewed in the meeting, as well as the proposed budget.&#x20;
* Committee members requested that the budget be edited to include clear benefits, prioritization and to break out some line items into more detail.
* There was discussion as to which committee this budget should be approved and overseen by.&#x20;
* The CCC voted and approved to take on responsibility for this budget, with the understanding that technical support and oversight could be provided by the TSC.<br>

Government Participation Special Interest Group (SIG) request

* The community seems to be missing a place to take conversations beyond X.
* A short timeline SIG (maybe 6months) could be a place for people to surface issues in participation in governance. They can send those concerns and ideas with well thought out discussions.
* To keep it actionable, the results can be sent to the CCC to determine any actions to take, including improved governance features.
* Discussed having physical workshops related to these issues
* It was suggested that rather than providing a new space, attend spaces where people are already engaging. Then harness those conversations so they don’t go into the void.&#x20;
* Request from the SIG proposer: a dedicated Discord channel.
* Informal support - for the CCC to know it exists and direct people to the SIG when we notice online conversations.
* It was considered wither the SIG should report to the CCC or the ISC to better solve problems surfaced.
* The CCC voted that they were happy to be the point of contact for the SIG.<br>

Governance Support Working Group (WG) Update

* The main focus right now is a proposed consultation process around DRep compensation. So far, proposed a series of 3 public workshops with structured facilitation to address key questions around compensation.
* Objective of DRep compensation: Broaden the participation of DReps to generate a more decentralized distribution (could be geographically or amount of stake per DRep etc).
* Workshop 1, Feb 13th, 1500 UTC - philosophy behind compensation. Hosted by the Gov Support WG.
* Workshop 2 , TBD but in March - Determine the reward scheme.
* Workshop 3, TBD but in April to determine the numbers to apply to the selected reward scheme.&#x20;
* So far, the plan is fully virtual given the timeline, but it was acknowledged that if possible, in-person gatherings would deepen the conversation.
* Should we define OKRs or goals for this process?  It’s more important the outcome of the process, rather than the scale of the process.
* Like KPIs of DRep compensation.



Ratification Working Group (WG) Updates&#x20;

* Constitution governance action is on-chain!!
* The working group has been creating content and coordinating dissemination of it.
* Educational content, media/images, translations etc.<br>

CC Election WG

* The first meeting was held to review the election timeline and starting thoughts.
* Flagged that the voting tool to be used will need to go through the grant process, so needs to be started very soon.
* Discussed different voting systems, and whether AI candidates should be allowed.
* Discussed whether candidates should be KYC’ed.
* Timeline: runs from now until the ICC expiration on September first.
* The design phase is set to run for the month of February.



AOB

* Reviewed the CCC meeting frequency given the volume of activities. The chair and secretary will work to revise meetings appropriately.
