# Civics Meeting Minutes July 24, 2025

## Attendees:&#x20;

| Name             | Attendance | Role      | Voting Seat (Y/N) |
| ---------------- | ---------- | --------- | ----------------- |
| Larisa Mcfarlane | Yes        | Secretary | N                 |
| Nicolas Cerny,   | Yes        | Chair     | Y                 |
| Ken-Erik O       | Yes        | Member    | Y                 |
| Nana Safo        | Yes        | Member    | Y                 |
| Alex Seregin     | Yes        | Member    | Y                 |
| Randy            | Yes        | Member    | Y                 |
| Thomas Lindseth  | Yes        | Intersect | N                 |
| Taichi Yokoyama  | No         | Member    | Y                 |
| Reshan Fernando  | No         | Member    | Y                 |
| Daniela Alves    | No         | Member    | Y                 |
| Takeshi Ohishi   | No         | Member    | Y                 |
| Dzubang Mermoz   | No         | Member    | Y                 |



Recording: [Link to session recording](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1vHNBBZ8yk59OwBoxPOuinHviGokyc4xC/view?usp=sharing)

Transcript: [Link to transcript](https://docs.google.com/document/d/18I7DikgcG-F2upOXSH1RVCBHRL1uTE4dJjqzvWCnVsc/edit?usp=sharing)

## Agenda 24.7.25

* Verbal/Non-verbal Approval of Minutes from Previous Meeting.
* Update from chair&#x20;
* WG set up:&#x20;
  * &#x20;Governance Health Working Group (for objective 1)&#x20;
  * Governance Education Working Group (for objective 2)
* CC Update committee Action
* Rare Evo

## Decisions/Actions

#### Decisions

* Proceed: The committee decided to move forward with the approved roadmap immediately, following confirmation from the ISC that formal Intersect Board approval is not required.
* Establish Working Group Leadership: The committee confirmed the initial leadership and membership for the new working groups.
  * Governance Health: Ken-Erik and Nicolas will lead the initial setup.
  * Governance Education: Nana will lead, with Alex and Randy as initial members. The group decided to operate as "co-leads" in a less formal, decentralized manner.

Action Items

* Set Up Governance Health Working Group (Nicolas & Ken-Erik): Nicolas and Ken-Erik are to lead the setup of the Governance Health working group, with the first meeting scheduled for July 29th.
* Set Up Governance Education Working Group (Nana, Alex, & Randy): Nana, Alex, and Randy will coordinate asynchronously to schedule their first meeting and define initial action items, such as Alex preparing a document on audience segments.
* Submit CC Election Governance Action (CC Election WG): The working group, represented by Thomas, aims to submit the governance action to update the Constitutional Committee by Friday, pending a final check of key hashes.
* Create Social Media Content (All Members): All committee members are to provide a short bio for the content scheduler by the next day (July 25th).
* Schedule Social Media Posts (Larisa): Larisa will use the provided bios to schedule a series of "Meet the Members" posts on the committee's X (Twitter) channel.
* Prepare Working Group Infrastructure (Larisa): Larisa will create the necessary file structures and templates in the shared drive to support the new working groups.

| Topic                                       | Discussion                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   | Notes                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| ------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Opening                                     | Discussion about the large number of active governance actions (41) on-chain and the timing of their release during vacation season.                                                                                                                                                                                                         | The large number of governance proposals was noted as a challenge for DReps.                                                                                                                   |
| ISC Meeting Update & Roadmap Approval       | Nicolas reported back from the Intersect Steering Committee (ISC) meeting. The Civics Committee's roadmap was presented and received positive feedback.                                                                                                                                                                                      | The committee's roadmap is officially approved and work can begin immediately. The idea to reference the Edinburgh Decentralization Index for the "Governance Health" objective was suggested. |
| Governance Health Working Group Setup       | Nicolas opened the floor for volunteers to join the "Governance Health" working group. Ken-Erik and Nicolas both volunteered to join. The potential overlap with the "Minimum Viable Governance" proposal was discussed, with the consensus being that the committee's work could provide valuable input to that proposal if it gets funded. | Ken-Erik and Nicolas will lead the setup of this working group. The group's work is seen as complementary to the larger MVG proposal.                                                          |
| Governance Education Working Group Setup    | Volunteers were sought for the "Governance Education" working group. Alex, Nana, and Randy all expressed interest in participating. Alex raised concerns about excessive bureaucracy (charters, etc.) and advocated for a more action-oriented approach.                                                                                     | Alex, Nana, and Randy will form this working group. Nana offered to lead the group.                                                                                                            |
| Working Group Logistics & First Meetings    | The group discussed the best way to organize the working groups. Thomas clarified that working groups are flexible and don't require formal charters. Alex suggested that for the Education group, they should define action items first and then schedule a meeting.                                                                        | The Governance Health group will have its first meeting on TBC. The Governance Education group will coordinate its first meeting asynchronously via the internal chat.                         |
| CC Election Working Group Update            | Thomas provided an update on the Constitutional Committee (CC) election governance action. The transaction is ready and pending a final check of credential hashes from the members. The goal is to submit it to allow for sufficient voting time within the epoch.                                                                          | The governance action to update the CC is nearly ready for submission to the blockchain.                                                                                                       |
| CC Election Working Group - Further Details | Ken-Erik added that the working group reviewed audit results, and after a summer break (returning August 18th), the final task will be to create recommendations for future CC elections before the group goes on hiatus.                                                                                                                    | The working group's final output will be a set of recommendations for future election processes.                                                                                               |
| Social Media & Member Introductions         | Larisa introduced a new social media content scheduler. The first initiative is to post short introductions of each Civics Committee member on the committee's X (Twitter) channel.                                                                                                                                                          | All members were asked to provide a short bio for an "Introducing the Committee" social media campaign.                                                                                        |
| Action Items & Closing                      | All members are to fill out their bios in the content scheduler by the next day. The new working groups will begin their work, with initial meetings scheduled.                                                                                                                                                                              | The meeting ended with clear next steps for both the social media campaign and the newly formed working groups.                                                                                |

\
