# Civics Meeting Minutes Sep 11 2025

## Attendees:&#x20;

| Name             | Attendance | Role      | Voting Seat (Y/N) | Election Term |
| ---------------- | ---------- | --------- | ----------------- | ------------- |
| Nicolas Cerny    | Yes        | Chair     | Y                 | April 2026    |
| Larisa Mcfarlane | Yes        | Secretary | N                 | N/A           |
| Thomas Lindseth  | Yes        | Intersect | N                 | N/A           |
| Ken-Erik O       | Yes        | Member    | Y                 | April 2026    |
| Nana Safo        | No         | Member    | Y                 | April 2026    |
| Alex Seregin     | Yes        | Member    | Y                 | April 2026    |
| Randy            | Yes        | Member    | Y                 | April 2026    |
| Taichi Yokoyama  | No         | Member    | Y                 | October 2025  |
| Reshan Fernando  | Yes        | Member    | Y                 | October 2025  |
| Mermoz Dzubang   | Yes        | Member    | Y                 | April 2025    |
| Takeshi Ohishi   | No         | Member    | Y                 | October 2025  |
| Ryan Williams    | Yes        | Intersect | N                 | N/A           |

<br>

Community/Other Attendees:

* Observers: James M, Gintama

Recording: [CIVICS Committee (Intersect) Mtg - 2025/09/11 14:00 BST - Recording](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1wePoATE2d5bdaj1iD5nO10aRD3mWB3ce/view?usp=sharing)

Transcript: [CIVICS Committee (Intersect) Mtg - 2025/09/11 14:00 BST - Notes by Gemini](https://docs.google.com/document/d/155RSVV59LZ3ror2vWPdIy8qYDIBfc6fCI7xH5R61GFs/edit?usp=sharing)

Chat Transcript: [Cardano Civics Committee Meeting - 2025/8/21 - Chat Transcript](https://drive.google.com/)

**Decisions/Actions**

#### Decisions

* Establish Constitutional Amendment Working Group: The committee formally voted (6-0) to create a new working group. Its purpose is to provide a dedicated forum to discuss the constitutional amendment process, explore different frameworks, and collaborate with community members on a path forward.

#### Actions

* Explore Funding for Community Proposal (Larisa & Thomas): Larisa and Thomas will inquire with Intersect leadership about the possibility of Intersect covering the 100,000 ADA deposit for the community-led (Teo and Max's) constitutional amendment info action.
* Set Up New Working Group Channel (Larisa): Larisa will create the necessary Discord channel and infrastructure for the newly established Constitutional Amendment Working Group.
* Provide Feedback on Election Questions (All Members): All committee members are to review the proposed application questions for the upcoming committee elections and provide their feedback asynchronously in the Discord channel.
* Organize X Space for CC Members (Larisa): Larisa will organize an X (Twitter) Space for the past and newly ratified members of the Constitutional Committee.
* Submit Member Bios (All Members): Committee members are asked again to submit their short bios to the content scheduler spreadsheet so Larisa can create "Meet the Members" posts for the Civics X account.
* Hold Final CC Election WG Workshop (CC Election WG): The working group will hold its final workshop on September 29th to create a handover report and document recommendations for future CC elections.

<br>

| Topic                                     | Discussion                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | Notes                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| ----------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Constitutional Amendments Discussion      | The meeting opened with a discussion on the constitutional amendment process, referencing both the recent community proposal by Yuta and the more detailed ROM model proposal from Teo and Max. Nicolas reiterated the committee's role should be to facilitate a transparent and inclusive process, not to be the sole decision-maker. | The committee is actively considering its role in the constitutional amendment process, aiming to be a facilitator for community-led efforts.                                                                    |
| Funding for Amendment Process             | Thomas confirmed there is now potential to consider funding a tangible plan for constitutional amendments coming from the Civics Committee.                                                                                                                                                                                             | <p><br></p>                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| Review of the ROM Model Proposal          | The committee discussed the complexity of the ROM model proposal. Some members found the document difficult to understand and questioned its feasibility and how it could be "sold" to DReps, given its perceived bureaucracy and high initial cost (300,000 ADA).                                                                      | While respecting the effort behind the ROM model, there are significant concerns about its complexity, cost, and viability in gaining community and DRep approval.                                               |
| Path Forward for Community Proposals      | Nicolas proposed that the committee's role could be to help the proposers get their info action submitted, allowing the DReps to decide its fate. He suggested asking Intersect leadership if they would cover the 100,000 ADA deposit for the governance action.                                                                       | A key suggestion was for Intersect to potentially sponsor the deposit for the community's info action, enabling a direct vote by DReps without the committee needing to formally endorse the proposal's content. |
| Decision to Form a New Working Group      | Given the importance and community interest in the topic, the committee discussed and then formally voted on creating a new working group dedicated to the constitutional amendment process. The vote passed unanimously (6-0).                                                                                                         | A new Constitutional Amendment Working Group was officially established to create a dedicated space to explore frameworks and collaborate with community members.                                                |
| Upcoming Committee Elections              | The committee briefly reviewed the three application questions for candidates in the upcoming October committee elections. The questions cover a candidate's vision for improving Cardano governance, their past contributions, and their strategies for community engagement.                                                          | The application questions for the next election were reviewed. The discussion will continue asynchronously in the Discord channel.                                                                               |
| Civics Committee Communications           | Larisa provided an update on communications. She requested support for an upcoming X Space with past and present Constitutional Committee members. She also made a final plea for members to submit their personal bios for the "Meet the Members" social media campaign.                                                               | Larisa is planning an X Space to discuss the CC. Members were reminded again to submit their bios for the social media content scheduler.                                                                        |
| Governance Health Working Group Update    | Nicolas reported that the working group met and brainstormed KPIs for voter and delegator participation. The group is focused on defining metrics first before judging what is "good" or "bad." They are also working to align with the "Beyond MVG" project to avoid overlapping efforts.                                              | The group is defining KPIs for governance health, starting with voter participation, and is coordinating with a related IOG initiative.                                                                          |
| Governance Education Working Group Update | Randy shared that he and Larisa had a short meeting. The group is focused on its second milestone and is waiting to confirm new members before gathering more community input. Alex noted the importance of identifying knowledge gaps as a first step.                                                                                 | The group is preparing to onboard new members and has identified that a "gap analysis" of existing educational materials is a critical next step.                                                                |
| CC Election Working Group Final Update    | Ken-Erik reported that the working group is now in "hibernation" as its primary goal of ratifying the new CC has been achieved. A final handover workshop is scheduled for September 29th to document lessons learned and create recommendations for the next election.                                                                 | The working group has successfully completed its mandate. A final workshop will produce a handover report with recommendations for future elections.                                                             |
