# Civics Meeting Minutes Aug 28 2025

## Attendees:&#x20;

| Name             | Attendance | Role      | Voting Seat (Y/N) | Election Term |
| ---------------- | ---------- | --------- | ----------------- | ------------- |
| Nicolas Cerny,   | Yes        | Chair     | Y                 | April 2026    |
| Larisa Mcfarlane | Yes        | Secretary | N                 | N/A           |
| Thomas Lindseth  | No         | Intersect | N                 | N/A           |
| Ken-Erik O       | Yes        | Member    | Y                 | April 2026    |
| Nana Safo        | Yes        | Member    | Y                 | April 2026    |
| Alex Seregin     | No         | Member    | Y                 | April 2026    |
| Randy            | Yes        | Member    | Y                 | April 2026    |
| Taichi Yokoyama  | No         | Member    | Y                 | October 2025  |
| Reshan Fernando  | No         | Member    | Y                 | October 2025  |
| Daniela Alves    | No         | Member    | Y                 | October 2025  |
| Takeshi Ohishi   | No         | Member    | Y                 | October 2025  |
| Dzubang Mermoz   | Yes/Part   | Member    | Y                 | April 2026    |
| Gintama          | Yes/Part   | Observer  | N                 | \_            |

\


&#x20;

Recording: [CIVICS Committee (Intersect) Mtg - 2025/08/28 14:00 BST - Recording](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1WDEiiE5NRrHgsw0wjnz6hD-0J_xeRYM5/view?usp=sharing)

Transcript: [CIVICS Committee (Intersect) Mtg - 2025/08/28 14:00 BST - Transcript](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Ao8JBwH80nJ5ey2opC4C7ziU2ruZ4l0KzYZRUvc3lTc/edit?usp=sharing)

Chat Transcript: [Cardano Civics Committee Meeting - 2025/8/21 - Chat Transcript](https://drive.google.com/)\


### Agenda 28.Aug.25

<table data-header-hidden><thead><tr><th width="81.2890625"></th><th></th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>Item</td><td>Activity</td></tr><tr><td>1</td><td><ul><li>Welcome  - Chair Update</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>2</td><td><ul><li>Feedback on New Constitution Gov Action </li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>3</td><td><ul><li> Committee Meeting Cadence </li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>4</td><td><ul><li>Member Status &#x26; Offboarding </li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>5</td><td><ul><li>Working group updates:<br>Governance Health Working Group Charter <br>Governance Education Working Group (Nana)<br>CC Election WG (KenErik)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>5</td><td><ul><li>AOB &#x26; Close</li></ul></td></tr></tbody></table>

## Decisions/Actions

#### Decisions

* Constitutional Amendment Process: The committee decided to support the existing community workstream for the constitutional amendment process, rather than starting a new effort led by the committee itself.
* Meeting Cadence: It was agreed that the committee will continue to meet on a weekly basis.
* Member Offboarding: Following a formal vote (5 in favour, 1 against), the committee decided to begin the official offboarding process.
* Governance Vision 2030: The committee decided that it should develop a formal recommendation and position on what a long-term vision for Cardano governance should look like.

#### Action Items

* Nicolas: Invite Max and Teo to a future committee meeting to present their proposal and discuss how the committee can provide support.
* Nicolas & Larisa: Represent the Civics Committee at the upcoming product vision workshop and report back to the group with findings.
* Committee Leadership: Create a poll in the committee's Discord channel to gather feedback from all members on potentially alternating the weekly meeting time to better suit different time zones.

\
\


| Topic                                          | Discussion                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | Notes                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| ---------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| 1. Agenda Overview                             | Nicolas opened the meeting and outlined the agenda, including a follow-up on Yuta's constitution proposal, member status and offboarding, updates from the two new working groups, and a new point of discussion regarding a workstream proposal from a delegate group led by Max and Teo.                                                                                                 | The agenda was set with a new item added for discussion.                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| 2. Follow-up on Yuta's Constitution Proposal   | Nicolas informed the group that he had responded to Yuta, stating the committee would support the process of constitutional amendment but not endorse a specific proposal. Yuta replied that he lacks the resources to lead such a process and suggested the Civics Committee should take the lead.                                                                                        | The committee is now being asked by a community member to lead the constitutional amendment process directly.                                                                                                                                          |
| 3. Constitutional Amendment Process Leadership | Ken-Erik suggested that instead of leading the effort, the committee should collaborate with and facilitate the work of an existing community group (led by Teo and Max) that has already done extensive research and planning on this topic. Nicolas and others agreed this was a better approach, as it empowers the community rather than centralizing the effort within the committee. | Decision: The committee will explore supporting the existing workstream led by Teo and Max rather than starting a new one. \<br> Action: Nicolas has invited Max and Teo to the next meeting to discuss their proposal and how the committee can help. |
| 4. Alternative Approach: A Tender Process      | As an alternative, Ken-Erik proposed that the committee could define the work required and put out a public "tender" via a governance action, allowing different community groups to submit competitive proposals.                                                                                                                                                                         | This was raised as a way to introduce competition and discover the best value for the treasury.                                                                                                                                                        |
| 5. Discussion of the Tender Process            | Nicolas raised concerns that asking "vendors" to prepare proposals without a guaranteed budget could damage the committee's reputation. Alex suggested a hybrid model: allow Teo's team to run the first iteration out of respect for their prior work, with the condition that they develop a fair tender process for any future work.                                                    | The consensus leaned towards respecting the prior work of Teo's group while considering a competitive model for the future.                                                                                                                            |
| 6. Meeting Cadence & Timing                    | Nicolas opened a discussion on whether to change the meeting time to accommodate members in the Eastern Hemisphere and whether to move from weekly to bi-weekly meetings. The group agreed to keep the weekly cadence.                                                                                                                                                                     | Decision: The committee will continue to meet weekly. \<br> Action: A poll will be created in the Discord channel to gauge interest in alternating meeting times.                                                                                      |
| 7. Member Status Updates                       | Nicolas provided updates on several members. Teshi has officially stepped down from the committee for personal reasons. Rashan and Taichi have both responded to outreach and confirmed their commitment to re-engage with the committee and its working groups.                                                                                                                           | The committee roster has been updated with one departure and two re-commitments.                                                                                                                                                                       |
| 8. Member Offboarding Vote                     | Committee initiated a formal discussion to offboard absent members, citing the new dismissal policy. Someone has not attended a meeting since November 2024 and has not responded to any communications. The offboarding is necessary for security access and to ensure meeting quorum can be met.                                                                                         | A formal vote was required to proceed with the offboarding process.                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| 9. Offboarding Vote Result                     | Larisa conducted a formal poll of the voting members present. The motion to begin the offboarding process for absent members was carried.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | Decision: The vote passed (5 in favour, 1 against). The formal offboarding process will commence immediately.                                                                                                                                          |

\
