# Civics Meeting Minutes 29th Jan 2026

Jan 29, 2026 | Civics Committee

## Attendees:&#x20;

<table data-header-hidden><thead><tr><th width="187.88671875"></th><th width="112.98828125"></th><th width="102.203125"></th><th width="115.31640625"></th><th></th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>Name</td><td>Attendance</td><td>Role</td><td>Voting Seat (Y/N)</td><td>Election Term</td></tr><tr><td>Nicolas Cerny, </td><td>Yes</td><td>Chair</td><td>Y</td><td>April 2026</td></tr><tr><td>Larisa Mcfarlane</td><td>Yes</td><td>Secretary</td><td>N</td><td>N/A</td></tr><tr><td>Thomas Lindseth</td><td>Yes</td><td>Intersect</td><td>N</td><td>N/A</td></tr><tr><td>Ken-Erik O</td><td>Yes</td><td>Member</td><td>Y</td><td>April 2026</td></tr><tr><td>Nana Safo</td><td>Apologies</td><td>Member</td><td>Y</td><td>April 2026</td></tr><tr><td>Alex Seregin</td><td>Yes</td><td>Member</td><td>Y</td><td>April 2026</td></tr><tr><td>Randy</td><td>Yes</td><td>Member</td><td>Y</td><td>April 2026</td></tr><tr><td>Dzubang Mermoz</td><td>No</td><td>Member</td><td>Y</td><td>April 2026</td></tr><tr><td>Ian Hartwell</td><td>Yes</td><td>Member</td><td>Y</td><td>October 2026</td></tr><tr><td>Megan Dyamond</td><td>Yes</td><td>Member</td><td>Y</td><td>October 2026</td></tr><tr><td>Musa Ridwan Itopa</td><td>Yes</td><td>Member</td><td>Y</td><td>October 2026</td></tr><tr><td>Simon Fleck</td><td>No</td><td>Member</td><td>Y</td><td>October 2026</td></tr><tr><td>Lorenzo Bruno</td><td>Yes</td><td>Intersect</td><td>N</td><td>N/A</td></tr></tbody></table>



Recording: [CIVICS Committee (Intersect) Meeting - 2026/01/29 12:57 GMT - Recording](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1JmQb4ZlpQS2UIKSMTwBtMmQ8dBocKcIS/view?usp=sharing)

Transcript: [CIVICS Committee (Intersect) Meeting - 2026/01/29 12:57 GMT - Transcript](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1vb7cHUZ9Mx8sB2mHsH8BcEsturYE7-8GOCQTcN-qxCA/edit?usp=sharing)

#### Meeting Agenda: CIVICS Committee (2026/01/29)

1. Welcome, Vice Chair election update and Voting Portal Briefing
2. Working Group Updates and Process Amendments
3. 2026 Constitutional Committee Election Framework
4. Community Outreach
5. Live Governance Actions and February Operations

#### Key Decisions Made

* Vice Chair Appointment: KØ was officially confirmed as the Vice Chair of the Civics Committee, serving until the next election cycle in April.
* CAP Charter Amendment: The committee formally approved Version 2 of the Constitutional Amendments Process (CAP) working group charter. This merged Phase 2 and 3 and updated the voting member list (adding Owen and Thomas Upfield; removing Gintama).
* CC Election Mandate: The committee approved the Constitutional Committee (CC) Election Recommendation. This gives Intersect the mandate to execute the upcoming election using standardized internal processes with Civics Committee oversight.
* Mandatory Credential Hashes: It was decided that for the upcoming CC election, credential hash verification will be a mandatory part of the registration phase to prevent delays during the transition.
* February Leadership Transition: Due to NC being on leave for the month of February, KØ will act as the presiding Chair for committee sessions.

#### Actions

| Owner        | Task Description                                                                                                                        | Status/Deadline |
| ------------ | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------- |
| All Members  | Review and contribute to the Governance Education spreadsheet/documents.                                                                | Ongoing         |
| LM           | Include the amended CAP Charter (V2) in the next weekly update to ensure community transparency.                                        | Immediate       |
| LM           | Coordinate the Twitter (X) Space scheduled for February 4th; members must accept/decline calendar invites.                              | Feb 4, 2026     |
| TL           | Organize ad-hoc working sessions for members interested in drafting the CC election Terms & Conditions (T\&Cs).                         | As Needed       |
| NC/KØ        | Conduct an offline "handover" sync to prepare KØ for February Chair duties and Intersect (IC) weekly updates.                           | Prior to Feb 1  |
| NC & CF Team | Raise awareness of the planned vote on current live governance actions (specifically the parameter change) to signal direction to SPOs. | Short-term      |
| LB           | Present the finalized Chair/Vice Chair Policy to the ISC for a formal vote to standardize future committee transitions.                 | Upcoming        |

#### Notes

<br>

| Topic                          | Discussion                                                                                                                                                                | Notes                                                                                                                          |
| ------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Vice Chair Election Results    | NC announced KØ as the newly elected Vice Chair (serving until April). LB addressed technical issues in the voting portal caused by a platform migration.                 | LB apologized for the front-end display bug; confirmed the final calculated result was accurate.                               |
| Vice Chair Policy Update       | LB noted that the Governance Working Group is finalizing a refined Chair/Vice Chair policy to standardize future elections.                                               | Document to be presented to ISC for a vote soon to provide clarity for all committees.                                         |
| CAP Working Group Update       | NC and TL provided updates on the Constitutional Amendments Process (CAP). The group voted to approve the updated charter, merging Phase 2 and 3 for better workflow.     | New charter (V2) adds Owen and Thomas Upfield as voting members; Gintama resigned by request.                                  |
| CAP Charter Approval           | The committee reviewed the amended CAP charter. LM facilitated a live poll for formal committee approval.                                                                 | Approved: 5 Yes, 1 Abstain. Charter V2 is now in effect.                                                                       |
| Governance Education Update    | RR thanked IH and MI for their involvement. The group is currently working on documentation and awaiting survey results from Nana.                                        | Members encouraged to contribute to the group's shared spreadsheet/docs.                                                       |
| AI in Governance               | AS raised concerns regarding the lack of guidelines for using AI (chatbots) with sensitive organizational documents and security risks in 2026.                           | NC suggested moving this deep-dive discussion to the Civics standup or asynchronous channels.                                  |
| CC Election Recommendation     | TL presented a framework for the upcoming Constitutional Committee (CC) elections, including a RACI matrix and a proposal for mandatory credential hash verification.     | Framework grants Intersect the mandate to execute the election with Civics Committee oversight.                                |
| CC Election Timeline           | TL outlined two timeline options. The committee discussed avoiding voting in July due to low participation and aligning with epoch boundaries.                            | Proposed ratification target: August 7, 2026. Preparation to begin April 1st.                                                  |
| CC Election Framework Approval | The committee voted on the recommendation and RACI matrix presented by TL.                                                                                                | Approved: 7 Yes votes. TL will set up ad-hoc working sessions for T\&Cs.                                                       |
| Upcoming Events & Gov Actions  | LM reminded the group of the X (Twitter) Space on Feb 4th focused on governance education. NC reviewed 5 live governance actions, including the net change limit setting. | NC will be on leave for February; KØ to substitute as Chair. IH noted the need for DREP/SPO awareness on technical parameters. |

<br>
