# Civics Meeting Minutes 19th Feb 2026

## Attendees:&#x20;

<table data-header-hidden><thead><tr><th width="170.9140625"></th><th width="114.83984375"></th><th width="109.88671875"></th><th width="107.43359375"></th><th></th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>Name</td><td>Attendance</td><td>Role</td><td>Voting Seat (Y/N)</td><td>Election Term</td></tr><tr><td>Nicolas Cerny, </td><td>Apologies</td><td>Chair</td><td>Y</td><td>April 2026</td></tr><tr><td>Larisa Mcfarlane</td><td>Yes</td><td>Secretary</td><td>N</td><td>N/A</td></tr><tr><td>Thomas Lindseth</td><td>Yes</td><td>Intersect</td><td>N</td><td>N/A</td></tr><tr><td>Ken-Erik O</td><td>Yes</td><td>Member</td><td>Y</td><td>April 2026</td></tr><tr><td>Nana Safo</td><td>Apologies</td><td>Member</td><td>Y</td><td>April 2026</td></tr><tr><td>Alex Seregin</td><td>No</td><td>Member</td><td>Y</td><td>April 2026</td></tr><tr><td>Randy</td><td>Yes</td><td>Member</td><td>Y</td><td>April 2026</td></tr><tr><td>Dzubang Mermoz</td><td>No</td><td>Member</td><td>Y</td><td>April 2026</td></tr><tr><td>Ian Hartwell</td><td>Yes</td><td>Member</td><td>Y</td><td>October 2026</td></tr><tr><td>Megan Dyamond</td><td>Yes</td><td>Member</td><td>Y</td><td>October 2026</td></tr><tr><td>Musa Ridwan Itopa</td><td>Yes</td><td>Member</td><td>Y</td><td>October 2026</td></tr><tr><td>Simon Fleck</td><td>Yes</td><td>Member</td><td>Y</td><td>October 2026</td></tr></tbody></table>

Transcript: [CIVICS Committee (Intersect) Meeting - 2026/02/19 12:55 GMT - Transcript](https://docs.google.com/document/d/18YKPvAUvCgInClNF4C6ax34vAGVJ5Sv2u9g8k8_3lD0/edit?usp=sharing)

Recording: [CIVICS Committee (Intersect) Meeting - 2026/02/19 12:55 GMT - Recording](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1k3cyVSZuyf392tq6i5cWn_FV8eqgv_EU/view?usp=drive_link)

## Agenda 19 Feb 2026

• CAP, Gov Health WG, Gov Ed WG Updates

• Budget Workstream

• Committee Elections & Terms

## Decisions/Actions

The Civics Committee meeting on Feb 19, 2026, resulted in several key decisions and action items aimed at shaping the committee's trajectory for the new year.

### Decisions Made

* Committee Term Alignment: The committee will transition to two-year terms to reduce the frequency of elections to once per year.
* Term Extensions: Members whose terms were set to expire in October 2026 will be asked to extend their tenure until April 2027 to align with the new annual election cycle.
* Budget Submission Strategy: The committee decided to push forward a draft budget with estimated costs to the Steering Committee first, rather than spending time on granular numbers that may be rejected.
* Budget Ceiling: The committee agreed to use 1 million ADA as a soft "cap" or guidance figure for the Civics budget proposal.
* Meeting Frequency: A supplemental working group meeting was agreed upon to finalize the budget draft before the end-of-month deadline.

***

### Action Items

* #### <sub>Civics Working Group Session: KØ will host a meeting on Tuesday, Feb 24 @ 11:00 CET on primary budget items and cost estimates.</sub>
* #### <sub>Election Outreach: All Members to commit to appearing in X (Twitter) Spaces and Discord engagement sessions to encourage new applicants for the upcoming April elections.</sub>
* #### <sub>Education Survey Methodology: RR and N will collaborate next week to transition from Google Forms to an interview-based data collection method.</sub>
* #### <sub>Budget Document Review: MI and KØ will review the "Civics Budget 2026/2027" document, specifically Section 5 regarding Ambassador and Fellowship programs, prior to the next session.</sub>
* #### <sub>CAP Editor Bootstrapping: TL and MD will draft a plan for the next CAP Working Group regarding how Intersect/CF/IOG can bootstrap editor roles to define workload and compensation.</sub>
* #### <sub>Community Tooling Sync: RR and PL will connect via the app to coordinate efforts on the governance tooling mirror board and open-source collaboration.</sub>

<table data-header-hidden><thead><tr><th width="157.3203125"></th><th width="315.42578125"></th><th></th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>Topic</td><td>Discussion</td><td>Notes</td></tr><tr><td>1. CATS Summit, Nairobi</td><td>LM provided a "TL;DR" for the Nairobi event. The third day focused on governance with workshops by MH, AD, and K. There is high community enthusiasm for involvement in civics.</td><td>Great enthusiasm noted; expect more community interest in future committee roles and exploring more ways to engage with African communities.</td></tr><tr><td>2. Steering Committee Updates</td><td>KØ reported on work regarding extending committee terms and dismissal policies for non-contributing members. Noted that SPOs are still voting last-minute on parameter updates.</td><td>Discussions ongoing regarding CIP implementations and parameter updates post-hard fork.</td></tr><tr><td>3. Committee Budget Framework</td><td>KØ shared a document for the 2027 budget. Primary focus is DRep participation rates. RR suggested DRep events. Discussion on governance health reports and education surveys.</td><td>A 1M ADA "cap" (ceiling) was suggested as guidance for the budget proposal, but is not a hard limit.</td></tr><tr><td>4. Constitutional Amendment Process (CAP)</td><td>Discussion on a potential grant for a CAP information flow coordinator. TL noted the need to update categories and define the scope of editor roles.</td><td>Suggestion for Intersect/CF/IOG to bootstrap editor roles initially to gauge workload.</td></tr><tr><td>5. 2027 Budget Timeline</td><td>MI asked about the deadline. KØ noted the goal is to have drafts by the end of the month for potential on-chain voting in March.</td><td>An extra working session is scheduled for Tuesday at 11:00 CET (10:00 UTC) to finalize items.</td></tr><tr><td>6. Committee Elections</td><td>LM announced six Civics seats expire in April. Terms are transitioning to 2-year cycles. Members expiring in October '26 will be asked to extend to April '27 to align schedules.</td><td>One election per year is the new goal. KØ encouraged current members to stand for re-election.</td></tr><tr><td>7. Education Working Group</td><td>RR suggested moving beyond Google forms to include interviews for better data collection.</td><td>Awaiting return of N next week to refine the research method.</td></tr><tr><td>8. Governance Actions Status</td><td>KØ updated on Net Chain Limits (NCL) (61.4% DRep approval) and the "Vanos" hard fork naming (83%). Noted transaction/memory block unit increases are enacted.</td><td>NCL remains a subject of heavy debate regarding constitutionality and the role of the CC.</td></tr><tr><td>9. Ledger Behavior (Technical)</td><td>TL and IH discussed a failed parameter update. The ledger correctly stopped voting because the reference was no longer the newest due to an intervening enactment.</td><td>First time this ledger behavior was observed "in the wild"; confirmed technical guardrails work as intended.</td></tr><tr><td>10. Observer Feedback &#x26; Tooling</td><td>PL shared info on weekly governance calls (Mondays 16:30 UTC) and a miro board tracking governance tooling. Discussions on the need for community endorsement of proposals.</td><td>Civics aims to be a facilitator, encouraging community members to pick up critical governance tasks.</td></tr></tbody></table>

<br>
