# Civics Meeting Minutes 15th Jan 2026

## Attendees:&#x20;

<table data-header-hidden><thead><tr><th width="165.74609375"></th><th></th><th></th><th></th><th></th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>Name</td><td>Attendance</td><td>Role</td><td>Voting Seat (Y/N)</td><td>Election Term</td></tr><tr><td>Nicolas Cerny, </td><td>Yes</td><td>Chair</td><td>Y</td><td>April 2026</td></tr><tr><td>Larisa Mcfarlane</td><td>Yes</td><td>Secretary</td><td>N</td><td>N/A</td></tr><tr><td>Thomas Lindseth</td><td>Yes</td><td>Intersect</td><td>N</td><td>N/A</td></tr><tr><td>Ken-Erik O</td><td>Yes</td><td>Member</td><td>Y</td><td>April 2026</td></tr><tr><td>Nana Safo</td><td>Yes</td><td>Member</td><td>Y</td><td>April 2026</td></tr><tr><td>Alex Seregin</td><td>Yes</td><td>Member</td><td>Y</td><td>April 2026</td></tr><tr><td>Randy</td><td>Yes</td><td>Member</td><td>Y</td><td>April 2026</td></tr><tr><td>Dzubang Mermoz</td><td>Yes</td><td>Member</td><td>Y</td><td>April 2026</td></tr><tr><td>Ian Hartwell</td><td>Yes</td><td>Member</td><td>Y</td><td>Oct 2026</td></tr><tr><td>Megan Dyamond</td><td>Apologies</td><td>Member</td><td>Y</td><td>Oct 2026</td></tr><tr><td>Musa Ridwan Itopa</td><td>No</td><td>Member</td><td>Y</td><td>Oct 2026</td></tr></tbody></table>

Recording: [CIVICS Committee (Intersect) Meeting - 2026/01/15 12:57 GMT - Recording](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1G7rKUEMTxe4iQ_iRGPp3XzFzxjpGROsx/view?usp=sharing)

Transcript: [CIVICS Committee (Intersect) Meeting - 2026/01/15 12:57 GMT - Transcript](https://docs.google.com/document/d/117B8LNBOqswhIRyzGc97pf8dQITi6-MARLlMwuXWSWw/edit?usp=sharing)

Chat Transcript: [Cardano Civics Committee Meeting - 2025/8/21 - Chat Transcript](https://drive.google.com/)

## Agenda 15th Jan 26

* Governance action:  “critical” parameter changes, SPO voting expectations
* Civics X Spaces  next Wednesday proposal, regular monthly slot, naming & format
* CIP-149  comms plan, publication channels & reallocation discussion
* Working Group updates: CAP, Governance Education, Governance Health (paused)
* ​​Committee business:  Vice Chair election & New proposal for Civics member stand-up (roles and focus)

## Decisions/Actions

The following decisions and actions were identified from the CIVICS Committee meeting on January 15, 2026:

#### Decisions

* Committee Governance Proposal: Nicolas Cerny (NC) will prepare a formal proposal for next week regarding the term lengths (suggested 6 months) and separate voting events for both Chair and Vice Chair positions.
* Working Group Support: Larisa Mcfarlane (LM) and NC will provide SR with the template for the new Incentives Working Group charter to begin formalizing its priorities.
* Governance Literacy Data: Members are requested to fill out and share the Governance Education Working Group's data-gathering form to help identify educational gaps in the ecosystem.
* Education Form Enhancement: Nana Safo (NS) will update the education resource form to include a link to existing data to prevent repetitive submissions.
* Strategic Planning (Homework): Each committee member is tasked with identifying one specific topic they individually want to lead or work on regarding Cardano governance for 2026 to be discussed in the next session.

#### Action Items

* Vice Chair Election Process: Proceed with the Vice Chair election currently live on the Intersect members portal.
* Establishment of a New Working Group: The committee agreed to form a DRep Incentives Working Group, led by Seomon Register (SR), to consolidate and aggregate various compensation research and proposals.
* Regular Public Outreach: The committee locked in a regular "Civics Space" on X (Twitter) to be held every third Wednesday of the month, starting January 21st at 2 PM UTC.
* Explorer Accuracy Requirements: It was confirmed that an SPO vote is required for the current parameter change due to critical parameters; Intersect has approached known explorers to ensure they display this requirement correctly.

<table data-header-hidden><thead><tr><th width="145.375"></th><th width="307.23828125"></th><th></th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>Topic</td><td>Discussion</td><td>Notes</td></tr><tr><td>Vice Chair Election Update</td><td>NC opened the agenda with the Vice Chair election. Two candidates have stepped forward. A controversy was addressed regarding DM's vote count from June 2025.</td><td>The poll is live on the Intersect members portal. Candidates have until the end of the call to register.</td></tr><tr><td>Internal Governance &#x26; Re-election Motion</td><td>NC discussed that committee governance is self-determined. He proposed a motion for a new chair election to ensure a fresh mandate every time new members join, though the motion was dismissed during the session.</td><td>Committees can technically trigger new elections for leadership roles at any time with the support of two members.</td></tr><tr><td>Election Transparency Controversy</td><td>DM raised concerns that original election framing suggested the second-place candidate would automatically become Vice Chair. TL confirmed June 12th minutes stated the Vice Chair election would be revisited, not finalized.</td><td>NC agreed the original framing was ambiguous and emphasized the need for clearer processes to avoid future controversy.</td></tr><tr><td>Vice Chair Election Proposal</td><td>NC proposed formalizing two separate voting events for Chair and Vice Chair in the future. He suggested 6-month terms aligning with the entry of new committee members.</td><td>NC will prepare a formal written proposal for the group to discuss next week.</td></tr><tr><td>CAP Working Group Update</td><td>NC and TL provided updates on the Constitutional Amendment Process (CAP). Analysis shows the new GitHub-based process fulfills nearly all requirements defined in Phase 1.</td><td>Next steps focus on repository setup and simplifying Git processes (e.g., issue templates) for non-technical users.</td></tr><tr><td>Gov Education Working Group Update</td><td>NS requested help filling a data-gathering form to identify existing governance literacy materials. Alex Seregin (AS) has prepared a Cardano Forum post for wide distribution.</td><td>Form aims to identify educational gaps. NC suggested adding a link to existing resources in the form to avoid duplicate entries.</td></tr><tr><td>Twitter (X) Spaces Initiative</td><td>LM scheduled an X Space for Wednesday, January 21st at 2 PM UTC. She proposed making this a regular monthly "Civics Space" every third Wednesday.</td><td>The space will cover Civics updates and recent governance actions. KEØ suggested experimenting with X live streams to reach a wider audience.</td></tr><tr><td>2026 Focus Areas &#x26; Homework</td><td>NC assigned "homework" for members to identify one specific topic (e.g., incentives, social workshops, or ledger logic) they want to lead in 2026.</td><td>Goals are to establish high-level objectives for the year and move toward a unified 2026 budget.</td></tr><tr><td>DRep Incentives Working Group</td><td>SR proposed a new working group to consolidate DRep and governance actor compensation efforts. TL noted existing SIPs and compensation talks by Murasaki (Emergo).</td><td>The group will act as an aggregation point for various existing incentive research and proposals.</td></tr><tr><td>Parameter Change Update (Param 03)</td><td>IH flagged an inconsistency in how explorers (ADAT, Cardano Scan, C Explorer) display voting requirements for critical parameter changes.</td><td>TL confirmed that because critical parameters are involved, an SPO vote is required; explorers have been notified to update their displays.</td></tr></tbody></table>

<br>
